At this point,
we have built a full fledged app, right?
So we started by loading
data that was hard coded.
We were pulling up
.netlify/functions/boop, and
that just brings up this text
that we were echoing back, righ?
The simplest possible thing that we could
write as a serverless function is this.
This is our reduced use case,
the simplest thing you can do.
And from there we expanded to have movies
loaded from a static file from this JSON.
And we took that a step further,
we combined our movies with API data
from the OMDb so that we could extend
it and add scores and ratings and
that's how we got to here where we have
our scores and ratings being loaded.
Then we wanted to go a little
bit further than that.
So we stepped across, and
we moved into a database.
So we got into Hiroku.
And now when we're in Hasura,
and Hasura is allowing us
to manage our full database and
we do that through GraphQL,
and the GraphQL is managed
with serverless functions.
So we have this helper that
sends off requests to Hasura for
us using secure tokens.
And we know these are secure because
serverless functions don't allow anyone to
see the source code which means that we
can safely use secure access tokens when
making calls and serverless functions.
And people can't snoop on that, right?
They have to do a lot more work to get
at this secure data than with a client,
if you put it in client side code,
you're giving it away, right?
So you can't do that.
So this allows us to
protect those secret keys.
Now that we're able to retrieve data,
we're loading all of our
movies from Hasura, right?
So we're doing all this
to load from Hasura,
and then we still augment
with the om OMDb API.
So we're merging two separate data
sources into one response object, right?
We combine that whole thing, so
that we end up with our movies combined
with the response data from the OMDb.
And that means that we are now
looking at a really flexible and
extensible way to get at data.
And we take that a step further,
and we set it up so
that we can create movies
using a serverless function.
We're now creating data,
we've created an actual CMS here.
And by extending that to include user
management where we're checking for
a roll on a JSON web token.
Now we've got a secure CMS,
only authorized users are able
to make changes to our database.
And I want to point out something
else that's really cool about this.
If you were to do this in other systems,
what you've done is if you're
talking directly to your database
like you would be if you were to
just send requests direct to Hasura.
You're telling somebody
where that data is, right?
So they would be able to know that our
Hasura instance is up at this app here.
When you use a serverless function, no
one even knows where your data came from.
You´re hiding a serverless function, and
there´s no indication that
data came from this server, or
that service, or this SaaS platform,
or a JSON file, right?
And that means you're controlling access,
the only thing that you can
do on the Hasura database
is what we've explicitly defined
in our server less functions.
There's no other way to really get to it,
right?
You can't figure out what it is and
try to brute force your way in or
hammer it with different requests.
You just get to say, all right, you get to
create movies, you get to read movies and
create movies.
Those are your only two options.
There's no edit, there's no delete.
For me to delete a movie right now, I have
to log into Hasura which is authenticated
through the Cicero Cloud,
which is tied to my OAuth through Google.
So, without having to do a whole
lot of extra ops background,
extra ops work to lock things down.
I've sufficiently hidden
the implementation details and
abstracted those away with
serverless functions,
that I can feel reasonably
confident that my users and
their data are not at risk when
they go to access this code.
Now, I'm not a security expert,
I'm not gonna pretend to be one.
So I do think that you would want to check
any production code with a security expert
to make sure that you don't
get yourself in trouble.
But if you're just trying to ship a proof
of concept, I believe this is good enough
and I believe that this would get you
to the point that you could safely open
up an app like this to users and
start playing with it.
Start having people you know create
some mods, let them create movies,
have your database.
>> When you're adding a movie, you can see
the data going on the Network tab, right?
>> Yes.
>> But it's secure because only a logged
in user will be able to see that.
>> Right, only a logged in
user would be able to see it.
And because we're gonna be using HTTPS,
if you look here,
we can see that we're automatically
getting a SSL certificate.
That means that that transaction is
encrypted, the token that you're sending,
that's secured between you and
the endpoint that you're reaching to.
So you wouldn't want to do this if you
didn't have an SSL certificate setup.
>> Is it easy to implement
password reset by identity?
>> Yes, so let's go into this thing here.
And let's go to our admin page and
then I'm gonna log out.
There's a recovery set in already.
So with this,
that's already kind of implemented.
That'll also be implemented with
other services like Auth0 as well,
if you wanna use those.
And they do have really good docs,
if you don't wanna use
Netlify Identity,
there are lots and lots of options.
I'm using Netlify Identity because
we're using Netlify Dev for
the local testing of everything.
Everything is kind of
built to work together.
So it makes it faster for us.
I really like it as a solution and
it's what I use, but
it's by no means the only solution.
>> Seems like a common debugging issue
with the workshop is if somebody has
run the dev command and then they
didn't know it was still running or
something, it didn't
get shut down properly.
How do you clear up that port?
>> If at any point you
are running the dev command and
it's not working, there are a lot
of ways that you can do it.
But the way that I like to do it, which is
pretty brute force is I run killall node.
And if we go back over here,
we'll see that it is no longer running.
And so that is a very surefire way
to make sure that you're no longer
running any node services.
If you're using Netlify Dev
with a non node process,
if you were running a Hugo site or
something,
that wouldn't work, in which case
you would then wanna look at.
There's another way that you can do it.
Let's run netlify dev, and
it's gonna run on localhost:8888.
So I can go over to this and there's
a command that I can run which is lsof -i,
and then you put in the port number
with a colon in front of it.
And that'll show you the process
that's running that port.
So then you could do, kill and
the ID, and that stops it.
And so then it's stopped over here.
So those are two ways,
if you know the port number,
you can run that lsof command, and
I'll bring that back up so you can see it.
It's here.
That's a good one if you know the port,
if you don't know the port, but
you know what was running it,
if it was node, you can run kill all node.
>> Was the authentication token stored
in local storage or session storage?
>> Yes,
it is stored in the application tab.
You can find it in local storage and,
Let me actually login so we can see it.
We have a go true user, and so
that go true user is gonna
include an access token.
So you can grab that, I don't think
there's anything in session storage.
We do have the the cookie though.
So if you wanted to do like
role based access control,
there's a cookie in there as well,
where you could check that and
make sure that somebody has a role before
allowing them to even load a page.
There are ways to do that,
that I'm not gonna go into cuz there's
a very netlify specific way that
I don't want to turn this into
a straight netlify marketing workshop.
And then there are ways that you can do it
that are more implemented at the nginx or
Apache or whatever routing layer that I
don't know enough about to show quickly.